# Getting Started

The easies way of creating a mycoriza react project is through
the `create-react-app` cli. Use following commands to create
a react application with mycoriza toolchain setup.

## Prerequisites

Currently, mycoriza supports OpenAPI v3. OpenAPI v2 support is planned to be developed.

## How to create a project.

Run following command to initiate a Mycoriza react project. This will create a
react single page web application with necessary dependencies and toolchains.

```shell
npx create-react-app <project-name> --template mycoriza
```

## Post-creation steps.

The mycoriza template contains the basic setup to boot up a mycoriza project. To add initial swagger source,
run following command

```shell
cd <project-name>
npx mycoriza add
```

This will generate `mycoriza.config.json`, which contains the configuration of general flags and sources.

The API client hooks and types can be generated by running following command.

```shell
npm run updateApi
```

When the updateApi command runs for the first time, it requests the following 
configurations.

1. **OpenAPI url**: the location where the OpenAPI specification can be found.
Only the hosted specifications are supported and file based specification configuraiton
is under development.
2. **Development URL**: The server url which the application connect to within the 
development environment.
3. **Production URL**: The server url of the production system. If the production url
is empty, it uses the application hosted domain as the production URL.

Once you complete these steps, you can find the following generated code. 

**Store** 

The store related configuration can be found in `<project-root>/src/store`
This code is generated only once and can be modified according to the 
project needs.

**API**
The domain types and the hooks can be found in `<project-root>/src/api` 
The changes you do in this codebase will be wiped out in each `updateApi`
execution. 

**Mycoriza configurations**

The configurations you add in the initial data `updateApi` call, are configurated
in the `package.json` file. 

**Documentation**

The API might be complicated and may requires additional time to understand.
Therefore, a comprehensive documentation is generated during the `updateApi`
phase, This API can be found in `<project-root>/docs/api`.
